# PiccoloKitchen
This project aims to create a modular platform for exploring micro-kitchens that are culture specific. Cooking is a personal experience that has cultural attributes.  This project explores new modes of cooking using robotically enabled cabinets and appliances to minimize the footprint of the kitchen, while maximizing the ability for users to cook large meals, socialize, and utilize the same space during non-meal times for work. Piccolo kitchen is one of the components of the micro-units that are currently under development as part of the CityHome 02 projects.
# **What is it?**
In the City Science group, we strive to design the future of cities, buildings, and homes to provide more livable communities and to make life more enjoyable. As populations swell and space is at a premium we need to make better use of space in all facets of our lives. The Piccolo Kitchen Project explores new modes of cooking using robotically enabled cabinets and appliances to minimize the footprint of the kitchen while maximizing the ability for users to cook large meals, socialize, and utilize the same space during non-meal times for work. Our team has reimagined the kitchen as a multipurpose-system that adapts to the user needs.
 
The kitchen project is part of the robotic-micro-unit project which aims to provide affordable urban spaces in tier-one cities such as New York and San Francisco. As living space becomes scarce, its cost is rising and unaffordable. Unaffordability is a major cause for the displacement of people and with them, their culture. 
 
Recently, some cities have increased affordable housing units; however, there is a strong need for innovations in space management in the home that allow for smaller groups to accommodate residents' needs. We are hoping that the application of the micro-unit robotic systems will have a positive impact in densely populated cities by reducing unit cost and allowing people to live where they work and enjoy their life.
 
Piccolo Kitchen aims to accommodate all the needs of an apartment resident while occupying as little space as possible; It is a modular unit that includes appliances, storage, counter space, and a sink in a compact area that can be optimized for different needs using its various robotic components.. The unit needs to be portable, modular, and compatible with consumer kitchen appliances. Through a series of robotic arms, pulleys, and actuators, the kitchen will provide users with the ability to access the cabinets and appliances they need at that time while moving the ones they don't need out of the way. The proposed kitchen design aims to go beyond being solely a cooking space and serve as a workstation as well.  
